today i want to talk about marketing
plan what can you do
in a very easy and constructive way
hi this is pm dinner here i am a b2b
marketing consultant
author and speaker today i want to
finish
the last part which is part three of how
to create the best marketing plan for
2021. if you haven't seen part 1 and
part 2
you can see the video links in the
description below so check
them out if you have watched them let's
get started on part three
seven key elements of a marketing plan
and number five is basically what are
the number of the channels that you want
to use
or campaigns that you will do to
actually promote your plans
obviously every one of you are using
multiple
channels to amplify
and also market communicate engage with
your customers
it's very important to categorize the
channels that your management
and also your internal stakeholders can
understand
and this is one way of doing it right so
if you have many channels that you use
to actually
uh market or to do go to market for your
products and services
you can categorize them into pay media
categories
own media earned media and the pay
social
and all media is basically your own
platform
that you can control like your website
your community your email list your
mobile app
right your blog right your own events
for your customers your catalog
basically
things that you can control into your
platform you can control the messaging
you can control how you're going to use
the platforms that's all media
so in general whatever you do you need
to dial up
and also expand your own media because
like i said that's what you can
control pain media obviously is using
third-party platforms right tv
commercial
is the you're using third-party platform
to amplify your message
sponsorship banner ads right customize
pay ads and the product placement even
mobile ads or any kind of
ad placement on any other third-party
platforms they are all paid media and
earn media is you use
twitter facebook linkedin to actually
promote
and your messages or the products
and the urn is basically using that
platform kind of like a free tools
and the peso social is you using that
social media platform but you do the
paid advertising
right so you have twitter pay ads
facebook pay ads linkedin pay ads
etc so now you help everybody understand
that you are using many marketing
channels to do marketing and this is a
great way to share
what's new in this specific slide i talk
about
intensive if you are doing something new
you can use the slide to actually share
with your management
hey this is something we are going to
launch in 2021
for example we're gonna have a community
site we are gonna do our first tv
commercial
we're gonna do a mobile ads oh by the
way we are going to have amazon product
pages
you know so identify what other things
they are new
and you can share with them and also
tell them hey you know we are not just
doing marketing and status quo
we are constantly thinking and think
through that what other things we can do
differently
this is also a very good slide format i
want to share
that if you have a very specific
campaign for example you have a product
launch
and then you have a big big campaign
there's a pay media associated with it
you are writing tons of blog posts and
you are doing the pr
interviews and you also are attending
multiple different events
and to actu with your sales team and if
that's the case it's nice to actually
put some sort of campaign timeline
for specific product launches what other
things that you are doing say over
three or four months period of time i
call that rolling thunder
right what are some of the rolling
standard marketing output that you are
doing one after another
and what channel you are using to make
that happen number six
is what are some of the key initiatives
that you will do
in next year right in the whole year
what are some of the things that you
will do
the software that you want to implement
or
additional hires what are the things
that you will do
are some sort of key initiatives
obviously marketing is not free
if you want to do marketing well there
are processes
there are tools that you have to
purchase
in order to set things up and you need
to automate certain kind of process
to make yourself or the whole team more
efficient right
so there are tools you possibly have to
buy there's a website you need to update
and there's certain kind of back-end
integration that you need to work with
i.t that will take away some of your
budget
and some of the resources so identify
what are those
key initiatives and key plans that you
will do
communicate clearly what are some of the
benefits that you are going to get
right when you do some of those
marketing initiatives bear in mind a lot
of marketing initiative
is back in it's about processes it's
about sourcing new tools
it's about uh integrating you know
databases
is about cleaning the databases so a lot
of those benefits
are not direct not something that
management can see
it's indirect it's basically you have a
very clean database
that means you can do the segmentation
of email much better
then it does help click through rates of
your email campaigns
but that initial 100 000 suspend
to clean up the email list is not going
to directly
or directly related to that
click-through rate
does that make sense so you need to
identify what are the benefits
right the indirect and the direct
benefit of doing some of those
key marketing initiatives which is on
surface it just looked like a cost
identify them and also showcase when
you are going to do that and when that
will be done of course
have another slide to support a high
level slide what are some of the key
initiatives and the benefits and also
what are some of the challenges that you
see ahead
so you can set the expectations up front
in terms of hey
you know what there are some challenges
right here there are some risks
i want to call it out and make sure bps
and also ceos you are aware of it right
so set the expectations upfront
the last one is how much budget you need
to make that happen
there are multiple ways to do budgets
you can do budgets
by categories by channels by marketing
functions by events
right there are many ways of doing
marketing budget
in general i tend to categorize the
budgets by quarters
q1 q2 q3 and q4 and then
who owns a certain amount of budget the
owner may be at the vp level
or maybe at the director level depending
on how you categorize them
if you do have many many channels and
your team
is very big chances are that is a
laundry list
the list can be very long to categorize
of a capture
majority of the marketing budget that's
totally fine then you need to determine
how you want to categorize them
so the categories of the budget is
critical
and also the the gathering the data
gathering of the budget
is usually bottoms up right you take you
talk to multiple different
internal stakeholders and you gather
their information
and then use the bottoms up to actually
do
a summary level of the budget slide
so this is very simple slide but again
it's actually a lot of work to pull this
together
so the closing slide of the marketing
plan if you are doing the presentation
you obviously have a closing slide
right it can be a summary you want to
summarize in terms of everything you
just
share with them or you can talk about
help needed
what kind of help that you need from
your management the other one
is um after your presentation i you
probably will seek the approval and
basically say
do you approve everything i share with
you do you approve my recommendation on
head count do you
approve my recommendation on budget you
talk about next steps
the most important thing is a lot of
time when you present it the first time
it's basically get them kind of warm up
to your slides
and to your directions to your budget
and the resource recommendation
the next thing that you need to do is
follow up right
you need to ask them hey should i come
back if they actually give you a bunch
of action items then you say hey should
i come back and do a presentation again
i want to close the action items with
you
i also want to get your approval in
terms of the budget and resources
before i can move forward to the next
phase so those are
uh you need to actually have a very
specific cause to action
when you try to close it try to
understand what they need from you
and also what you need to do to move
everybody to a next step
so that's pretty much it this is what i
want to share with you
which is the key slides you need to
include as a part of your marketing
plans
and also the templates that create that
can help you
here's the reality i want to share with
you the devil is in the details
it's a lot of work but all the slides i
talk about does require you
to talk to multiple different
stakeholders does require you to get the
information
and you are going to find a lot of
information are missing
they don't have it they may not have the
messaging framework for the new product
launches
they probably don't know when they are
going to launch the product somewhere
between you know i don't know q2 and q3
you need to make assumption that's the
key you need to make assumption
and you document your assumptions on the
slide it made that very clear
hey you know what the product launches
is going to happen between may and april
we don't know when
so you have a bar to showcase to cover
that whole month
that's the potential of projected a
product launch timeline
does that make sense so you need to make
a lot of assumption and you will not
have all the information you need and
that's the way it is
seriously i've been working with so many
clients on marketing plans
it was never complete uh ever but we
will always get to the point
about 65 70 and then using that
to drive additional conversation with
the management okay
that's the key okay now you just
finished watching the last three
elements
of making the best marketing plan for
which step do you think is most helpful
the fifth element which is talking about
the marketing channel summary
or the number six element which is
talking about the key initiative that
you would do for the whole year
or number seven that is your budget
summary
let me know which one that you find most
useful
and click like below and that will
help to get this video to be shown in
front of more
marketers so to continue to improve as a
marketer
i recommend you check out my other
videos
and please subscribe if you like the
video
and click on notification bell if you
have any questions
let me know hello pmdinner.com or
make comments below i would definitely
answer them
thanks a lot take care bye
[Music]